We used YOLO v11. For training we converted the dataset to YOLO bbox/labeling format and also splitted into 3. When training the YOLO model first we trained it with 100 epochs and it seemed nice at first. But when we tested the model using the live webcam feed it was glitchy especially about the masked_weared_incorrect class. There was problems when the lighting was low too. we also checked the metrics, and in the confusion matrix we saw that for the masked_weared_incorrect class the %50 of it were recognized correctly and it was confusing it with with_mask class. Since we need to add more data to training set from the other 2 sets, we found the counts for each class in every set. When splitting, the validation set seemed to have more than enough examples for masked_weared_incorrectly. We moved some from the validation set to training set. For the different lighting conditions we have added RandomBrightnessContrast augmentation as well. We trained the model with those updates for data. When we reviewed the model's stats and also testing with the live webcam feed it turned out to be detecting better especially for the msaked_weared_incorrect class. It was very good. But since there were no signs of overfitting until now we wanted to try to train it for 200 epochs as well and when that training has completed it turned out the best epoch was 116. epoch and it was a little better than the previous model when tested. Just for curiousity we wanted to train it for 500 epochs as well but YOLO stopped the training when it was around 250 epochs because there was no noticable change and the best epoch was still the same.
We also used our daily life images some being from the covid years masked, incorrect masked and not masked and also some images which does not contain any human at all. Especially the first training model was confident that there was a people not wearing mask on some of the sky images which vary in terms of brighntess and contrast, it was having difficulties with differentiating masked weared and masked weared incorrectly. After training every image of us predicted correctly.